PETALING JAYA: Courier company J&T Express Malaysia has apologised over recent cases which went viral on social media depicting their staff violently tossing packages.

In a statement on Sunday (Feb 7), it said that the management handled the matter immediately and the employees involved had publicly apologised.

"Everyone's opinions and suggestions are truly accepted and adopted by the company.

"J&T has been fully committed to localisation development, continuously improving employee compensation and benefits, and promoting the development of Malaysia's social economy and e-commerce industry.

"We have been committed to building a complete compensation and benefits system to increase employee benefits," it said.

It added that J&T has given employees their year-end bonuses after comprehensive consideration, and in accordance with the Malaysian labour law.

It said that for employees who have worked for less than a year, bonuses are paid according to the length of working time without prejudice.

"Unfortunately, certain employees are not clear about the bonus payment scheme which led to violent sorting of packages on Feb 4, inciting some employees to make collective disturbances, and posting the videos on social media.

"Our Perak state management immediately handled and clarified the incident. On Feb 5, the employees had resumed their normal working status and actively sorted and processed the packages of customers," it said.

It said J&T will not deduct or owe employees a penny of wages, and hereby declare that they are willing to accept the supervision and inspection by the public and institutions.

The company also said due to the rapid increase in package volume during the MCO period, J&T took on more packages from the community during this period.

It added that the company hired more temporary workers and only provided simple training for the temporary workers' SOP.

"This is indeed a fault in our management. We have formulated special regulations and management methods for settlement of claims and supervision of similar incidents, and fast settlement of lost packages.

"We are grateful to the public for their love and support for J&T. We have always spared no effort to improve our services and internal management," it said, adding that reforms were made in the shortest possible time over the past few days, including staff expansion, vehicle expansion and management supervision.

It said that its management goes to the grassroots for training to ensure the quality working behaviour of all employees.

"We will bear all the responsibilities, quickly improve our management and service standards, and provide professional training to our own employees for reliable and efficient express service to the Malaysian users.

"We deeply know that frontline employees are the greatest asset and we would like to thank our frontline employees for their continuous efforts to provide delivery services to the public," it said.