SHAH ALAM: City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, which has an annual turnover of more than RM100mil, is mulling over a listing on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia within the next three years.

Besides being able to tap into the equity market to raise funds, the company also hopes to further strengthen confidence among its investors, stakeholders and customers by being a listed entity.

“Being a listed entity will further boost customers’ confidence in us, especially when we want to penetrate South-East Asian markets that we are not in yet,” said founder and managing director Datuk David Tan.

He said the company’s domestic arm was still the main income contributor but it aimed to grow its presence in the region.

Currently, beyond Malaysia, it has operations in Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Hong Kong and China.

Tan said the firm planned to grow its business in South-East Asian countries as well as penetrate new markets in the region as overseas contribution to the group was relatively small compared with its domestic market.

“We are talking to bankers and have shortlisted a few for the initial public offering. However, it is still preliminary to disclose further,” he said.

Asked about its competitive edge, Tan said the company had been growing organically for the past 35 years and that it would use the proceeds from the listing to invest in technology and infrastructure to better serve its customers.

City-Link commands a 13% market share of the domestic courier service in Malaysia.

It started as a courier company and later expanded into other services such as third-party warehousing and counts several multinational companies as its clients.

Tan opined that the nascent stage of e-commerce in the region provided vast opportunity for a boom of online shopping that would further boost demand for courier services.

Asked if the current weak market conditions would defer its listing plans, chief operating officer Ronald Tan said: “We will definitely wait for the right time to list… When the economy is bad, a lot of people will suffer but some will gain.”

He added that consumers might then turn to online to hunt for bargains and that would benefit them.

On top of that, a low crude oil price environment bodes well for the company’s profit margins.

At the moment, there were more business-to-business delivery but he expected more business-to-customer deliveries going forward.

Moreover, its regional plan would enable it to counter the slowdown in any one particular market.

Its RM100mil integrated hub in Bandar Saujana Putra, which is about 12 times bigger than its existing facility at the Glenmarie Industrial Park, is expected to boost its revenue by at least 20%. The new 4.9ha hub features a fully-automated sorting system.