“Coupled with our barcoded tracking system, we are able to ensure that the right medication is delivered to the right patient, and most importantly, in the right condition, ” GDEX chief operating officer Caren Chong said.

KUALA LUMPUR: GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) will collaborate with DOC2US and Alpro Pharmacy to implement secure and real-time tracking of medication delivery.

DOC2US, which is a telemedicine provider approved by the Health Ministry to provide digitally signed e-prescription services, said the strategic tie-up would enable the group to provide a one-stop solution for patients; from digital healthcare and pharmaceutical supplies to logistics.

“This strategic collaboration between DOC2US, Alpro Pharmacy, and GDEX will not only enhance our back-end processes and productivity, but most importantly, provides a better patient experience when it comes to medication delivery services, ” chief executive officer of DOC2US, Raymond Choy, said in a statement.

“We are confident of a safer provision of healthcare service, which is now more personal yet professional. In turn, we are able to set a higher standard in medication delivery in Malaysia, ” he added.

Once patients receive the e-prescription from doctors at DOC2US after consultation, pharmacists at Alpro Pharmacy will then fill the prescription, the companies said.

For patients who opt for doorstep delivery of their medication, they can track their barcoded medication shipments from GDEX in real time, to better time their availability in receiving their medication, it added.

“Our courier staff have been internally trained to handle the delivery and manage the storage of medication.

“Coupled with our barcoded tracking system, we are able to ensure that the right medication is delivered to the right patient, and most importantly, in the right condition, ” GDEX chief operating officer Caren Chong said.

Choy said there were currently more than 300 authorised pharmacies adopting the group’s electronic prescribing/dispensing solutions and it was targeting to onboard 1,000 pharmacy outlets this year to further shorten the delivery time nationwide.

“Gradually, we will also offer this seamless medication delivery service to all of our authorised pharmacies this year.

“At present, we offer same day delivery for minor ailments in seven major areas – the Klang Valley, Penang, Seremban, Melaka, Johor Baru, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching, ” he said.