The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) has taken note of viral photos and videos that showed a courier company's workers mishandling packages in a hub filled with parcels

In a statement on Tuesday, 9 February, the regulatory body stated that it views the incident seriously and has instructed the courier company to provide an explanation on what happened.

The MCMC statement, while addressing the incident, did not name the courier company.

However, following the incident that happened over the weekend, the courier company, J&T Express, has officially addressed the issue in a statement that was released on Sunday, 7 February.

According to J&T Express, the commotion in the video was due to a misunderstanding among some workers over year-end bonuses, which led to violent sorting of packages on 4 February.

Furthermore, the company assured customers compensation for their damaged packages.

The J&T workers who were involved in the viral video also issued a public apology.

The regulatory body also said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be slapped with both fine and jail

"All courier companies licensed under the Postal Services Act 2012 must abide by the conditions and rules set especially in protecting the rights of consumers," read the MCMC statement.

"Licence holders could be fined with a sum of not more than RM300,000 or jailed for a term not exceeding three years, or both if they are found to have violated any subsidiary legislation under Act."

Additionally, the regulatory body urged consumers to understand and be aware of their rights before choosing any courier service for the delivery of their purchases.

"If there are any damaged or loss items, consumers are urged to contact the service provider to report a complaint. If the consumer is not satisfied with the outcome, they may proceed to lodge a formal complaint with the commission via the Aduan SKMM portal."

Read more about the case here:

J&T Denies Pay Cut Allegations Following Viral Video Of Employees Tossing Parcels Around
It was said that J&T Express had reduced employee commissions from RM1 per parcel to RM0.30.